---
title: "A Re-introduction is Needed For My Personal Website"
date: 2024-10-15
description: "Re-introducing my personal website to the public after many years of inactivity and moving to various platforms"
tags: ["reintroduction", "blog", "welcome"]
type: post
weight: 20
showTableOfContents: true
---

So after many years of inactivity, I have finally got the courage to re-introduce my personal website and blog to the public. I am glad that I am able to bring it back but I think I need to provide an overview of the history of me blogging about my interests online. It has been a long while since I made a blog post, and many people on GitHub having personal blogs using static site generators really inspired me to make my own blog without having to worry about security vulnerabilities of content management systems or having to manually hand code webpages entirely from scratch. So without further ado, here is the overview.

Back in 2008, while in 7th grade, at my local library, I decided to create a website on a subdomain from the hosting provider [000webhost](https://www.000webhost.com) and shortly afterwards, for some unspecified reason, I used [Webs.com](https://webs.com). Back then, I was very computer illiterate, did not had a good undergraduate information technology or computer science education, and reused weak passwords across all of my online accounts. Not good, so to say. Anyway, when using 000webhost and Webs.com, I used a graphical site builder that required virtually no programming knowledge. It was a good first start, but I seemingly lost interest as I started high school. I fantasized about a fictional software company called "Asio" as I loved software and computers even back in middle school.

Since then, I had my own domain name during sophomore year of college in the form of `michaelwgunter.com` through the web hosting provider [Arvixe](https://arvixe.com). I learned about domain hosting, CSS, HTML, and SSL certificates at my college's Introduction to Web Design course. This time, I was hard coding webpages by writing raw HTML and CSS without the help of any frameworks, content management systems, or static site generators. It was a good experience. I recall one landing page for an "About Me" section used the original Material Design UX language for making the UI.

After some time, I allowed the domain certificate to expire as I personally did not like that domain name even though it was free. Meanwhile during junior and senior year of college, I was dealing with health issues I rather not elaborate on (for now) and made the decision to get rid of my older personal website. Then around sophomore year, a college professor named [John R. Marks IV](https://jrm4.com) suggested to my LIS 3353: Technologies for Information Professionals course that we should consider having a personal website and having some presence on the web outside of social media. He argued that social media platforms often censor or limit what you say for a variety of reasons (won't elaborate on those reasons right now, but de-platforming is a hot-button topic as of the time of this post). Plus, I kind of like the idea of having a small space on the web where I can share what is on my mind with greater flexibility over compared to Facebook or Reddit.

On September 9, 2024, I decided to create a personal website once again, but made the suboptimal choice of "hard coding" the web pages from scratch using my text editor of choice, [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com), rather than using a static site generator like Jekyll or Hugo. Fun fact, I actually experimented with the Jekyll static site generator for GitHub Pages in 2018, I think, but was disappointed with the limited theme options I can take advantage of.

On October 12, 2024, I rethought my personal website plan and opted to use [Hugo](https://gohugo.io) as my static site generator of choice after finding out that it can work with GitHub Pages, with some work. I still use Visual Studio Code to write Markdown code and "front-matter" for Hugo, but building and maintaining my website is five times easier now. So that is all I needed to share for now. I hope that this info helps you get the context of my history of building my personal websites and blogs. I plan on possibly great things in the coming future; it really all depends on my schedule and mood, but I like how things are progressing.
